This is a review of "A kernel-based method to calculate local field potentials from networks of spiking neurons." The manuscript was linked in Slack. It's about a kernel-based method of calculating local field potential (LFP) from networks of neurons. 

The LFP is usually calculated from current sources arising from transmembrane currents, in particular in asymmetric cellular morphologies such as pyramidal neurons. New method: Here, the scientists adopted a different point of view and relate the spiking of neurons to the LFP through efferent synaptic connections and provide a method to calculate LFPs.

The researchers showed that the so-called unitary LFPs (uLFP) provide the key to such a calculation. They showed experimental measurements and simulations of uLFPs in neocortex and hippocampus, for both excitatory and inhibitory neurons. They then fit a "kernel" function to measurements of uLFPs, and the researchers estimated its spatial and temporal spread by using simulations of morphologically detailed reconstructions of hippocampal pyramidal neurons.

Assuming that LFPs are the sum of uLFPs generated by every neuron in the network, the LFP generated by excitatory and inhibitory neurons can be calculated by convolving the trains of action potentials with the kernels estimated from uLFPs. This provides a method to calculate the LFP from networks of spiking neurons, even for point neurons for which the LFP is not easily defined. The researchers showed examples of LFPs calculated from networks of point neurons and compare to the LFP calculated from synaptic currents.

The kernel-based method provides a practical way to calculate LFPs from networks of point neurons. It's about how to use the uLFPs to calculate LFPs using experimentally-recorded uLFP templates or uLFPs calculated theoretically to estimate their spatial spread. It involves calculating the LFP of the network thorugh a convolution of spiking activity with the uLFPs waveforms. The uLFPs would be the convolution kernels when using this method.    

The essential properties of uLFPs were recorded experimentally, and the scientists used a method to generate LFPs based on those measurements. A detailed biophysical model of uLFPs used to infer to depth-dependence of a uLFP model. By calculating LFPs from networks of spiking point neurons.

The method involved estimate relative amplitudes of excitatory and inhibitory uLFPs using the depth profile of uLFP (in Fig. 5). The major contribution of inhibitory uLFPS will be around to the soma (stratum pyramidale) with the two main poles reversing around 300 μm depth (stratum radiatum) and reversing again around 600 μm.  

